# overleaf-offline
This repository contains tools to help compile Overleaf documents locally. This document assumes that you have Overleaf Pro, but you are welcome to attempt to use the materials for other configurations and versions. 

# Instructions 

1. Clone the Overleaf repository to your computer using the Overleaf git integration. The link can be found on the Overleaf project by clicking on Menu and then Git. 

2. Follow the operating system specific instructions. 

## Mac 

1. Install [MacTex](https://tug.org/mactex/)

2. Download the file install.command available [here](https://github.com/gkilleen33/overleaf-offline/blob/master/mac/install.command) 

3. Open a command line and change the directory to the location where you downloaded install.command 

4. Enter `chmod +x install.command` 

5. In the same command line, enter `./install.command Overleaf_directory` where `Overleaf_directory` is the path to the Overleaf project that you wish to be able to compile remotely. This should be the repository that contains 

6. Open a command line to the Overleaf directory that you just entered in the previous step. 

7. Enter `chmod +x compile.command` 

8. You should now be able to compile your project locally by double clicking on the compile.command file. The output will be in pdf/outputp.pdf, and other files generated by LaTex (logs, aux, etc) will be in pdf/log/ 

9. If you get an error such as "\! LaTeX Error\: File \`X.sty' not found." that means a package used in the LaTex document is not installed. The easiest way to install a package is typically to enter `tlmgr install X` in a command line where X is the package name mentioned in the error. However, it is also possible to use a GUI. You may search for “How to install packages in MacTex” to find instructions. 

## Linux 

1. Install curl if it is not installed (e.g. `sudo apt-get install curl` on Ubuntu)

2. Install MiKTex or TexLive

3. Download the file install.sh available [here](https://github.com/gkilleen33/overleaf-offline/blob/master/linux/install.sh) 

4. Open a command line and change the directory to the location where you downloaded install.sh 

5. Enter `chmod +x install.sh` 

6. In the same command line, enter `./install.sh Overleaf_directory` where `Overleaf_directory` is the path to the Overleaf project that you wish to be able to compile remotely. This should be the repository that contains 

7. Open a command line to the Overleaf directory that you just entered in the previous step. 

8. Enter `chmod +x compile.sh` 

9. You should now be able to compile your project locally by typing `./compile.sh` from a command line in your Overleaf project direcotry. Depending on your computer's settings, you may also be able to execute it by double clicking on the compile.sh file. To enable this option with gnome, you can typically enter `gsettings set org.gnome.nautilus.preferences executable-text-activation ask`. The output will be in pdf/outputp.pdf, and other files generated by LaTex (logs, aux, etc) will be in pdf/log/ 

10. If you get an error such as "\! LaTeX Error\: File \`X.sty' not found." that means a package used in the LaTex document is not installed. Follow the instructions of your LaTex distribution to install the package. 

